# Sounds Like!

Project Name: NYUAD Campus Cats Tour

Project Description:
This project is an interactive website [made by] NYUAD campus cats who give a tour of their favorite spots on campus. The theme is playful and fun and from the cats' perspective. The tour is given primarily through recordings of the cats (in meows and human talk).

Process: 
Our first step after deciding the concept was to look for images of the campus cats as inspiration for our characters so we referenced the @campuscats Instagram for more professional looking photographs. Based on these, we decided the locations and character archetypes of the cats and wrote out a script for each of them highlighting the cat's location and personality. We then proceeded to give the tour from the cats' perspective instead of humans' so that it is a very subjective (and not entirely true) telling of the story. Each of the cat's stories works independently but taken together presents an arc that recreates a sense of being on the NYUAD campus. We chose to give a different voice to each cat to give them a distinct identity and character that matches the script they are following, whether it be playful, shy, lazy or kind of evil. By adding background noises from the location to the dialogue we wanted to create a different experience and journey for each cat’s territory. The sound is the highlight of the experience as the audio storytelling is the only way for the user to get a complete feeling of what the campus is like. By giving the user a choice to hear in cat and English translation, we felt the experience would be a lot more involved and dynamic. Of course the meows were all recorded from cats on campus for the authentic experience. We wanted to make the website looked like it was created by cats, hence the playful icons, bright colors, scratch marks and paw prints were incorporated into the visual design :)  We decided to design the icons/buttons and the background ourselves and match their color and style to the actual cats so that we have a consistent and unique aesthetic. And finally, by adding a welcome page we wanted the user to know what to expect and clarify that the tour was being hosted by cats.

Reflection/Evaluation:
We were initially going for a vertical slider (where the image that you select enlarges and the others are a little faded) but this changed as we progressed since we felt that it did not match the fun and cartoonish feel of the audio recordings and concept of cat tour guides. It was a little difficult to combine the images with cartoon icons on the page since we did not want to visually overwhelm the user but it turned out to play well together and have a cute yet polished look. We were a little worried about the sound quality, so we tried noise reduction and added background music to try and refine it which worked fairly well. The volume or "presence" of the background audio was also kept different for the cats, for instance near the arts center where it's usually very loud the background was made more overwhelming while near D1 where it's normally quiet, the human speech is much clearer and louder than the background. We also wanted to create a sense of beginning and ending within each cat's story so we used the fade effect on the audios. We had a fair amount of struggle with deciding the layout for the website with regards to the user experience with controlling the sound and selecting the different sounds available. For instance, we initially had a separate play button but we realized that it made the process too long and complicated for the user (as well as from a javascript sound programming perspective) so we decided to remove it and use our language buttons as the primary play and pause. The control buttons were then placed on the left most side of the screen closer with the cat icons in the middle so that from left to right, the user could easily recognize each step of the process in playing the audio. Additionally, we set one of the cats as the default audio because it gives a short introduction to the concept. However, we wanted users to feel they are in control so we gave them the option to decide the order they want to listen or skip between recordings and come back where they left off; and the stories being told will still make sense. We also had to ensure that there was no overlap of audios playing either for the same cat or for different ones. Perhaps the most troublesome elements were trying to figure out spacing on the page and keeping all the separate elements aligned on resizing which could still be improved. Overall, our intentions with the visual feel and the role of the audio in the website came across fairly well and we accomplished the tasks we had set out to with the project.

Christopher Chen, Erica Wu, Khola Jamshad, Maryam Khalili
14/11/2020